Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From Hansel minutes.com It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 70. In
this episode, Scott talks with,
do you know  creator
of OctoPrint. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I am talking with the
developer of OctoPrint Gina .
How are you? Hi, I'm
fine. Thank you. I am
absolutely thrilled to be talking
to you because as people
who have been listening to
the show lately, no, I've
been getting into three D
printing. And one of the
wonderful things that I discovered
as I was doing three
D printing, was that the
way I was talking to
my printer was more complicated
than it needed to be.
And fortunately, unlike other people
who suffered for years before
they discovered OctoPrint, I discovered
it within just a few
hours of starting people said,
Oh, you've got to get
OctoPrint. You got to get
out to print. What is
it about occupant that makes
it so special? Well, basically
it allows you to control
your three D printer, your
consumer oriented through your printer.
I have to add from
a web browser. So you
put the software on a
little embedded computer, like a
raspberry PI. You can also
use a laptop or a
windows machine or a Mac
or whatever you have laying
around, but the pie is
actually the intended use case
because it's so cheap. You
connect this to your respiratory
pie, to your printer, and
then he on the other
end to your network. And
then you can basically use
any web browser on your
local network. Or if you
add something like a portfolio
or something like that, even
from all over the world
to see what your printer
is doing, to tell it
to print, file XYZ, whatever,
to manipulate all the excess,
actually, you know, not only
tell him what to do,
but also to see that
it does it right, because
with three D printers, right
now, we are still not
at the point where they
are truly black and play.
Like, you know, the two
D printers that, you know,
from your office where you
tell them to print a
file and then they will
just do it and everything
will be fine, but you
still need this feedback loop.
So this is actually one
of the big focus points
of OctoPrint that the doc
does not handle the printer
as a black box, but
actually allows you to get
some feedback of what is
going on in there, Right?
With two D printing, you
know, we feel confident I
can send a hundred pages
to my printer and, you
know, as long as I
have paper and ink, I
don't really think about it.
I'm not going to worry
that I'm going to come
back and find the house
on fire. I'm pretty sure
that my two D printer
can handle this print job,
but with three D printers
I've had, well, I made
one mistake where I simply
left the house and I
came back and the print
had gone bad. And I
found just a mess of
hot plastic. It was quite
scary And it can be
quite scary to clean up
too. Also, I've heard, thankfully
I so far never managed
to end up with something
like that. Maybe thanks to
OctoPrint. I don't know. It's
true. You definitely don't want
to leave a three D
printer by itself. It can,
they can in fact, burn
your house down if it's,
if it goes really, really,
really wrong, but your point
about not leaving it on
'em unwatched is really an
interesting one because these prints
will take eight hours, 12
hours. Even if you do
a big a year or
more, if you do a
big print, what's the longest
print you've ever done. Personally,
I think I never got
over six hours so far
because that's actually the funny
thing about it. I got
that three D printer. Then
I started writing software for
it. And all of a
sudden I was not actually
using the three D printer
anymore for any long prints,
because I was so busy
writing software and well, so
I think six hours, something
like that. And that was
overnight actually. So I've done.
I I'm, I'm not a
patient I've done it. I've
done a number of them
that are 10, 10 hours
plus. And it's pretty amazing
that it worked. I felt
like it was pretty amazing
that it worked at all,
but I realized that I
wanted to see what was
going on. And this was
what was so exciting to
me about OctoPrint because it's
not just simply a, a
printer queue, right? I mean,
I plugged my three D
printer originally into a laptop,
and then I realized I
don't want this laptop to
be tied up. But I
also noticed that my, I
was getting printing issues because
I'd be doing other stuff
on the laptop, you know,
and then what would happen,
I would have buffering issues
and it would stop talking
to the printer and things
would go wrong. You think
it's really important to have
a dedicated computer that handles
your three D printing? Yeah,
actually that was one of
the, one of the motivational
points for me, because at
the beginning I had my
printer here in my office.
It wasn't, it's a quite
big one. My first printer
was an Ultimaker the first
generation. So that's not something
that you have just on
your desktop. It's just too
big for that. And so
it was standing around on
the floor with the cables
going everywhere, the USB to,
to my, to my desktop
PC, actually going some somehow
over my lap. And I
was not able to use
the printer at all while
it was printing. And that
was around the time when
I thought, okay, maybe there,
there has to be something
better than that. That, that
is just not usable that
way. And how did this
start? Did you just write
a prototype or had, did
anything like this exist before
you decided to make OctoPrint
There exists, acquired a number,
number of solutions that allows
you to basically remote control
your printer, wire wire, your
wifi. And I think something
like a week after I
got the printer, I started
looking around the end in
the net four, four, something
like that, but everything I
found handled the printer, like
a black box. So basically
you had something like small
web forms where you could
upload G-code files or the,
the, the actual files that
the printer uses to in
order to, to print stuff.
And there was that, so
you could send stuff there,
but you did not know.
Okay. Did it stop printing
now? Is it teasing out?
Is the temperature at the,
at the point it's supposed
to be, or is it,
I don't know, at 500
degrees Celsius and the house
is on fire now And
Yeah. And that was the
point where I thought, okay,
maybe, maybe I should try
my hand at getting something
so that I can work
with it. And that was
right before my vacation, my
Christmas vacation breaks. So it
was an EDL time. And
so I sat down and
actually forked my, my, my
first iteration of, of Cura.
So I used the communication
stack from Cura, which is
in fact, a slicing engine,
but also has this component
where it can connect to
your printer and actually sent
the file over to it.
And yeah, that was the
first iteration. And I think
after, after something like two
days after Christmas or so
I was at a point
where I said, Hey guys,
online on the, on the
Google plus community for three
D printing, I said, Hey,
I got something here and
it can plot your temperature
and you can send files
over to it and it
will then print them and
continuously upgrade you on the
process. And you can use
it from all around the
house and stuff. And people
were like, Oh, that's awesome.
I want to use that
too. Where's the source. And
then I uploaded it to
get up and made it,
made it more usable over
the rest of my vacation,
stripped Cura from it so
that it was a standalone
product actually. And basically when
the new year turned around,
that was a January, 2013, I
thought, okay, well, I'm done
now. It was a fun,
right. I got a back,
gotta get back to work
now, but people kept telling
me it's awesome and asking
questions and demanding features and
reporting backs, and suddenly had
a full blown, open source
project on my hands, which
is suddenly not something I
had planned on when I
started so well. Were you
on vacation from a job
as a, as a web
developer? Yeah, I actually know,
not as a web developer,
I actually used to do
a full time Java development.
So back and front and
also a bit, I also
had some experience in web
development wise. I used to
work for a big it
consultants company. And yeah, I
also did so concurrently to
OctoPrint over the last couple
of years until August last
year, when I was able
to leave that You picked
the occupants written in Python
primarily, correct? Yes. Yes. And
it pays in JavaScript of
course, for front end stuff,
HTML, CSS. That's about it.
Yeah. Were you using Python
in your job? Like, was
it, did you try Python
because you thought, Hey, I
do Java for a day
job. I'll do Python at
night. I, it was more
like something I had done
Python in my, I mean,
I always was somebody who
liked to tinker with stuff.
So I also tried to
make it a habit to
learn a new language every
couple of years and pies.
And that had been the
last language that I really
dabbled in back then. And
then I think I learned
this in 2010, or I
don't know, it's a long
time ago and Kira was
written the pies. And so
that was one of the
reasons why I used it.
I also understood it. I
really like that language because
it forces you to, to
structure your code well, due
to white space, being significant
compared to Java where you
can basically write lines, like,
like, like from here to
New York and back, and, and
yeah, and it's a quiet,
mature and quite powerful language.
So I also took a
look at no JS at
the beginning, but her, it
turns out that it was
just not that mature yet.
So I actually ran into
a lot of trouble and
I know people would probably
flame me now for that,
but I actually develop on
the windows and the no
JS support or getting no,
Jay has to, to work
with serial ports under windows,
at least around Christmas, 2012
was horrible. So I don't
know. I think I spent
half a day on that
and then decided, Oh, no,
I, I don't want to
do this. I just go
with pies. And then, so
I ended up with, And
this is Python 2.7. It's
still pays Python 2.7. I
back when I started, it
was, I use a couple
of, of, of frameworks and
libraries inside. And I think
flask it, I'm not sure
if it's now a flask
is the part that, that
actually does the whole web
framework thing for me. And
I'm not sure about our
compatibility to 3.3 now, but
at least back then they
still were restricted to five
and 2.7 or something. 2.7
is an extremely mature and
extremely reliable cross platform thing.
So it is the, it
is the Python that will
never die. So you shouldn't
feel bad about using 2.7.
I'm not feeling bad about
it. I just feel that,
you know, I would feel
better if I work on
it. Yeah. Yeah. So we
keep talking about serial ports.
Again, for people who may
not have context, you take
a three D model and
STL that really true 3d
representation of the thing you
want to print, and then
you slice it and you
use, you mentioned Cura. Slicing
is the process of turning
it from a three D
model into instructions for printing,
which is just a text
file G code. And that
G code is sent. Is
that sense, serially to the
printer that like, you need
to like push it out.
Like you talk to a
modem or any small shareholder.
Yeah, Yeah. You have to,
you have to put it.
You have actually, actually you
have two options, but in
principle you, you just send
it line by line, by
line, by line to the
printer and for each line,
the printer tells you. Yeah.
Okay. I got that. Yeah.
Okay. I got that. Or
not sometimes if you have
some trouble on the line,
it will tell you, Oh
no, I didn't get it.
Please send it again. And
so you have to have
some intelligence in order to
be able to handle those
recent requests. The other option
of course, is some printers
or most printers these days
actually also have the ability
to print directly from a
Chico stored on an SD
card. So you take the
G code file, put it
on the sticker, put the
SD card in the printer.
And then on the printers,
LC display or wire OctoPrint
because occupant also supports that
you can then select the
file, say print. And then
even if you disconnect the
laptop from the printer, it
will continue to print. Ah,
that's, that's really the only
reason I would want, I
was wondering why I would
want to print from the
card so I could accidentally
unhooked the thing Only that
you also avoid the bottleneck.
That is the, that is
the serial port, because you
are limited to 250,000 boat
or, or less than that
demanded depending on the printer
model and all that. And
depending on what you're trying
to print and how fast
you're trying to print, that
can actually become an issue.
Really. So, yeah. So if
you have something that, the
thing is, if you instruct
a printer, a printer to
print something, and if you're
instructed to print a circle,
then what most slices or
really any slices I can
think of right now will
produce for that cycle is
not a, I don't know,
do a circle arc with
four, four 90 degrees and
the radius of two centimeters,
but instead do a little
line, then do a little,
another, another little line then
to get another It's a
bunch of little arc links
and a real, Real length.
So line segments, line segments,
and line segments that are
supposed to approximate a circle.
I mean, you can imagine
how, how many short, very,
very short moves that will
prove to produce. And for
each of those moves, you
have one line that has
to go to the printer
that has to be acknowledged
by the printer and so
on. So that can become
a bit much for, for
the, for the port to
handle. So yeah. So then
you are handling the serial
work, you're handling the retries.
You're also constantly querying in
between things saying, what's your
temperature. You show it on
this lovely graph. It's, it's
quite simple. I just drag
my G code file and
I do a nice little
HTML file upload, drag, and
drop there's also, I understand
talk of having it, do
the slicing for you, is
that correct? Yeah. The, the
current development version, or not
only the current development version,
the, the, the current stable
wasn't already also allows you
to configure Kira as a
slicer because the, the actual
slicing engine that is part
of Cura, which is called
the Cura engine runs quite
well on the respiratory pipe.
So the problem with slicing
is that it needs a
lot of CPU power because
there's a lot of math
going on in there. So
usually an arm processor is
not, not that perfect as
a target for something like
that, but they Brown did
a really good, really, really
great job with, with Kira
and even large piles are
something that, that are, are,
you can even slice large
files on a pie. So,
I mean, it takes of
course longer than on a
full feature PC, but it's
something that finishes in regular
times. No. Why would I
want to do that though?
If I like, I, like,
I like to see where
the supports are going to
be, This is, this is
actually funny because I'm also
in this, in this camp.
I also like to have
the three D view and
see, okay, Oh, well, it's
going to put the supports
in there. And if I
know, if I now change
the parameter like that, then
it will look like that.
And so, but there are
actually people who, who wants
to be able to just
put an STL, download an
STL, drop the STL file.
So the actual model file
that they download it from
something like thing. It was
a you imagine, or something
like that. And just put
that on the, on the,
on the printer and have
it, do everything fully, automatically.
So they don't want to
care about that. And it
also offers up things like
slicing from something like an,
like a, like a mobile
app or so. So we
don't have the app on
the, on the mobile, right.
But instead use OctoPrint as
a slicing server and then
use it like that. And
of course in the, in
the final, it would be
great if you had something
like the 3d few and
the slicing preparation and all
that workflow, but in the
browser so that you can
do it all in there.
I want to take a
moment to thank our sponsors,
sync, fusion, sync fusions, mobile
web, and desktop controls are
trusted worldwide, but did you
know that they also provide
educational resources? The succinctly series
of free eBooks has great
content on popular technologies and
100 completely ad-free pages. These
books are written by industry
experts and topics range from
Cassandra to no JS to
windows 8.1. They're available for
Kindle apps and in PDF
format and new eBooks are
released each month. So Brown's
their library@syncfusion.com to download your
free ebook today. I wonder
if you could talk to
the folks at get hub,
you know, they have that
lovely STL file 3d viewer
now where you can take
an STL file and put
it in GitHub, and then
you get, what if they
would give you? I actually
looked at that. I think
they actually open sourced that
already. Okay. And I think
some guy on the, on
the OctoPrint ISC channel also
said that he wanted to
look into SEL viewing within
entrepreneur because the development version
now has the slicing support
greatly enhanced. So you can
have multiple slicing engine. So
if you don't like Cura,
then you can have a
wire, some kind of plugin
can just use another one.
And if it's not installed
on your respiratory PI, but
somewhere in the cloud, then
that also is something that
is in principle possible as
long as some are white
supplicant plugin for it. So
you have a little dialogue
now where you can select
which slicer in which file,
and you can also re
slice things which was not
prevalently possible with, with, with
other parameters and all that.
And so, yeah, slicing within
OctoPrint is still a bit
in its infancy, but we're
getting there slowly, but sadly.
So my big 50,000 feet,
feet vision of all that
will definitely be something that
allows this full workflow within
the browser. So Absolutely now
we've mentioned the raspberry PI
a few times, we haven't
actually formally come out and
talked about Octo PI, which
is basically an image of
OctoPrint fully prepared and running
for a raspberry PI. So
I can go and take
my windows machine or my
Mac. I can set up
OctoPrint in a few minutes,
or if I have a
raspberry PI lying around, like
I happen to have, I
can download an image and
basically have this be when
I added a wifi adapter,
fully wirelessly accessible three D
printers. So in my house
right now on my, on
my iPad, I can hit
OctoPrint or octopi in my
browser, and I get this
wonderful environment and I can
control the printer remotely. Now
is octopi a separate project
or a partner, or how
does that relationship work? That
is actually a separate project.
So what happened was I,
when I started entrepreneur, I
put out a big installation
instruction on the GitHub Wiki
four, four, OctoPrint where I
told if you want to
run this on the rest
of the replies and you
have to do this and
this and this and this
and this and this and
this, and personally, yes. I
mean, I didn't like that
either, but I just did
not have the time to,
to, to do this differently.
And then suddenly I got
in, in, in the, in
the, in the Google plus
group, I think that I
maintain for OctoPrint. There suddenly
was a post by some
guy from Israel who said,
Hey, I just wrote a
little image here, which has
all this OctoPrint installation included.
And also the, the webcam
server that already preconfigured so
that you can direct view
your prints and your browser,
and also the little web
browser or not, sorry, not
the web browser, the web
server that acts as a
reverse proxy, so that webcam
and OctoPrint are reachable under
the same URL. And it
also has this altar discovery,
which you mentioned where you're
just type occupied at local
and in any browser in
your local network. And then
there is the web interface
and I was like, jaw
drops to the floor. Yay.
Awesome. Yeah, that's that was
really, really great. And then
we, we actually guy, guy
Schaeffer is the one who,
who did this and we
are regularly talking now and
synchronizing our releases and all
that. But in the beginning
it was just him having
an idea and just doing
it. And that was really,
really grateful the community. Cause
now it's really just as
easy as you said, download
the image, flash it, put
it in the pile and
bam. And the thing is
that one thing is still
a bit complicated setting up
the, doing the initial wifi
setup. So because you have
basically, you have a, have
a chicken egg problem here,
because if you're having, if
you have a raspberry PI
that does not have a
monitor and no keyboard, no
nothing. How do you get
it on your wifi network?
I, I hear what you're
saying, but honestly I went
over to the television. I
plugged it in. I had
a keyboard for five minutes.
I set it up and
I haven't thought about it
since. So I think there
is, But there are still
people who, who would be
a bit far for whom
this would still be a
bit complicated. So Three D
printing, wait a second. It's
too complicated to do that,
but they're able to three
D print things. I mean,
at some point you have
to have a minimum ability
level. That's what I thought
too. But after two and
a half years of maintaining
OctoPrint I can now say,
Nope, you really have a
very, very diverse crowd in
there. So making it easy
for basically everyone is something
that It's reasonable to make
it in the plan. You
want to make this an
appliance. I still don't want
it want to dump it
down Too much, because I
think if you're making one
thing, one thing as I
said with, with current printers
is that they still require
certain amount of maintainers and
they still require a certain
amount of fiddling. So you
dump everything down too much.
Then this fiddling will not
be possible anymore. One of
the sizing thing was a
little concerning to me. I've
downloaded three D models before.
And if I had not
paid special attention to them,
for example, they weren't completely
flat on the bottom. They
were just like, literally skewed
by fractions of a millimeter.
And I got weird prints.
I was like, Oh, this
is just not flat. And
I had to go and
make changes. It's just one
of those things. And you
just would never see that.
It's almost like you can
open a word file and
look at it and then
print it. Or you can
right. Click on the word
file and say quick print.
Right. And it'll just print,
but then you're just fire
and forget. And that's just
seems scary to me, To
me too. But there are
people, as I said, who,
I don't know, I don't
know why I don't understand
it, but, But you want
to support the users. One
of the most, one of
the most amazing things. And
if there were a killer
feature about OctoPrint and there's
so many, it's the, it's
the camera. I got the
raspberry PI camera and I
can see the print. It's
amazing. I've mounted it. I
actually printed out a little
Mount it's sitting on top
of it and the camera
then moves with, with the
bed and you make these
glorious timelapses. Could you explain
the different open source projects
and technologies that you brought
together to make the, the
camera streaming in the browser
plus the time lapse possible?
That was actually not that
problematic to get it to
work in the browser because
I'll let me start from
the beginning at first I
thought, okay, great. It would
be nice if I could
actually see what the printer
is doing right now, because
seeing temperature, graphs and progress
bars and all that is
all nice and well, but
in the end, you really
want to see that it
is not, I don't know,
jumping off the table right
now or something like that.
And then I looked into
trying to get a webcam
run stream from within Python
on a raspberry PI. And
it turns out that with
open CV, that would have
been not a problem at
all, but the pay was
not up to it at
all. And CV is the
Python imaging library that does,
Is this one of the
pirates has an image. Yeah.
And so this was a
dead end because basically it
was running fine on my
development machine with like frame
rate of, I dunno, 25
frames per second, all fine,
happy day. And then I
try to run it on
the rest. Barry Pinder was
getting barely one frame per
second, even less than that.
So I scrapped all that,
threw it away and started
looking for a Turnitin. And
this was when I stumbled
across a little open source
to that back then I
think maybe saw barely one
per year or something like
that. It looked completely abandoned,
but I called MJ Peck
streamer. So it basically is,
is a little server that
connects to your MJ pixel
motion, JPEG capable, webcam, fetches
the images and just streams
them out on a, on
a socket in MJ pack
format. So basically motion JPEG
is, is, is a moving
images form format, think like
a Jif, but with JPEG.
So Right. If you make
a get, and it's a,
multi-part where it just goes,
JPJ, PJ, PJ pig never
stops. And so I call
it a poor man's MP4.
Yeah. That's also in my
motion motion. And, but the
good thing is that because
if it can directly take,
take the, take the MJ
PicStream from the camera, so
it doesn't have to do
much on its own, which
is something that is very
well suited. Find. I see.
So you're saying it's not
compressing in real time. It's
just taking my buffer off
of the camera and then
dropping it onto the chocolate.
Exactly. I mean, I think
it's not that that truly,
but this is basically the
gist of it. And it
turns out that this is
exactly what you want to
do on a raspberry PI,
because it's basically, it's something
like one or 2% of
the CPO at all seq
at all times, which increases
with more users, but still
it's okay. And this was
when I realized, Hey, I
might still be able to
get this webcam for you
to work. So basically what
happens now is that you
just run this little MJ
Peck STREAMA server that runs
inside octopi a little, a
little webcam script detects if
you connect to webcam and
if it's a USB webcam
or if it's the recipe
cam and depending on which
is what selects the right
configuration in order to launch
server and Octo prints simply
just embeds this image, there's
moving image. So OctoPrint itself
does not know how to,
how to control the webcam.
It just knows, okay, there
is a URL and I
will embed this there in
the website and boom, you
have a moving image. And
then there's also this additional
feature where you can have
it make time lapse videos
of your prints. So basically
this is something that I
saw that Cura had and
thought it was a very,
very nice feature because it
really helps in the packing
stuff. And also it looks
cool. So basically what you
need to do for a
time lapse is you just
fetched an image in regular
intervals and later one, stitch
this together into a movie.
And this is basically what
entrepreneur does. So it just,
it does not only get
told here's a stream of
a webcam to place a
bet here on the webpage,
but you also tell it,
and here is a URL
where you can fetch regular
standing, still images. And if,
you know, configure occupied to
create a time and we'll,
we'll use that URL fetch
again, the image regularly and
Indiana just stitch everything together
with, as an F F
impact. And that's that. So
basically that's, that's the webcam
support in OctoPrint and It
is, it is if you're
gonna go out and quote
unquote, sell OctoPrint and buy
sell. I mean, I want
people to get excited about
three D printing. So I
recently went to a bunch
of high school students. So
I'm selling them three D
printing and I showed them
the realtime three D printing
and they didn't, they, you
know, they thought it was
interesting, but their brains didn't
explode. Then I showed them
a seven hour print of
a coffee cup made with
OctoPrint using the time lapse
going, you know, basically seven
hour print and seven minutes.
And they just thought that
was amazing. That is the
feature to show people like,
Oh my goodness, look at
this it's time lapse. And
it just builds up this
three D model and the
kids are like, I want
to make toys. I want
to do this. I want
to do that. It is
an absolutely extraordinary feature. And
also for debugging, what went
wrong, it has been extremely
helpful for me, four hours
in I've left. I come
back, the print has gone
bad and I can actually
watch and see the moment
when everything went South. It's
a, it's a great, great
feature. So the last question
I wanted to ask you
a kind of, as we
close, is that you had
a job, you were doing
your Java consulting enterprise kind
of big company thing. You
had your hobby and then
now there's your hobby become
your job. How did you
pull that off? That is
the open source dream. Yeah.
And I certainly did not
expect this. So maybe first
start with, with the thing
that I had, I had
my full time job, then
I had OctoPrint and then
I managed to get my
employer to agree to boiling
down my, my full time
job to 80% job. So
I had at least one
day for a week off
for entrepreneur work of course,
with, with less money, but
okay. I mean, that's what
your passion. Yeah, that's, that's,
that's what my passion was
all about. And then, but,
but it turned out that
this is one day, it
was just not enough. And
so I was really starting
to get overworked and frustrated
and I just did not
have enough time to do
everything that I wanted to
do because I had so
many great ideas and just,
you know, I also had
to sleep sometime. And then
suddenly I got a nice
email from some, some engineer
at, at the Spanish company
asking me to, Hey, we
just discovered OctoPrint and we
also have three D printers
and don't you maybe want
to meet up, meet with
us. We will invite you
and just come down. And
this was like nearly a
year ago now. And I
flew down there and we
talked and they basically said,
okay, you know, I mean,
we really, really like what
you do and we want
to hire you and you
just keep doing on what
you do. And maybe if
we need something, because we
also want to use it,
we really, really want to
use it. And if we
need something down, we can,
we can talk about it
and see how best to
get it done in a,
in a sense that also
makes sense for everyone else.
And so this is where
we are now. I basically
work full time for four,
four BECU, which is set
Spanish company. And I fly
down every two or three
months to Madrid to have
some face to face time
with the colleagues and the
rest of the time I
sit here in my home
office from Monday to Friday
nine to five, no more
than nine to five, actually,
and a code way on
OctoPrint. And since I started
working full time on OctoPrint,
which was in August last
year, I, I have the
feeling that I really, really,
really managed to move the
project forward in, in large
steps. I mean, most of
that is still not available
to the general public in
a, in a way that
it's still not on the
stable branch, so everyone can
use what is being developed
all the time. It's it's
completely open still, but it
of course, as a bit
of a hurdle for people
who are not that comfortable
with switching branches and all
that. But I think as
soon as I get the
release out of currently working,
I'm currently working everything off
to, to, to get out
of the door. People will
be amazed. Do you think
I personally, by the way,
I have been SSH into
my raspberry pie and occasionally
doing a get poll and
then resetting OctoPrint and starting
again and jumping around different
branches. Do you think that
you're a little bit conservative?
I think you'd have so
many users that you expect
this thing to just work,
that you really want this
to be a perfect baked,
because I've seen some features
and I've come back over
to stable and I've said,
gosh, why hasn't she released
this yet? Yeah, the problem
is that a big, a
big number of the, of
the features that are currently
new in the development branch
are things that, so for
example, the plugin system that
is now new, that I
really, really need to make.
Yeah, perfect in air quotes,
because once this is out
and people start using it
to develop like ins, I
can't really change anything on
it anymore. So this is
why it's taking exceptionally long
right now to get the
stuff out of the door,
because I really don't want
to shoot myself or the
project in the foot by
now releasing something. And I
don't know, three months think,
Oh dear, why did I
do it like that? And
now we're stuck with it
and we'll be able to
fix it. And as a
plugin model, when creating a
plugin, you are effectively bootstrapping
an ecosystem. You're going to
have a whole community jump
up around your community and
start making stuff. And if
you don't get that interface,
right, I could definitely see
where that would be a
point of stress. Exactly. And
this is why I'm really,
really, really spending a lot
of time these days documenting
and refactoring and documenting some
more and refactoring some more.
And I wrote a big
plug in tutorial on how
to write your first plugin
and what to do and
with, with, with step-by-step and
everything. And people are actually
starting to contribute this way.
And this is great because
so far, I mean, I
just had OctoPrint as a
monolithic structure with me being
the only person being able
to pull to push on
that and pulling requests, always
being something where I had
to consider, well, does this
really add value for everyone?
And will it just, will
it may maybe just at
problems later for others and
all that. And now it's
just like, here's a plucking
interface program against it. And
if people want to use
your stuff, they can just
install your plugin and be
happy with it. That's a
really interesting question. And some
people like to have the
code their own, and they
don't want pull requests. I'm
not necessarily saying that this
is you, but I'm just
saying that people like, but
this is my baby. I
understand where I want it
to go. I am the
chief programmer. I will decide
where the main features are.
And then you have to
fight with people about pull
requests, or I think you
do what you're doing, which
is extremely smart, which is
make a plugin model and
say, listen, you go nuts.
Do whatever you want. Stop
sending me, pull requests, make
a plugin. And if your
plugin become super popular, then
we'll, we'll talk later. That's
a nice balance between those
two choices. I think The
problem also is the question
of maintenance, because basically if
I've, if I pull in
a lot of features from
other people, first of all,
I get quite quickly something
that's called feature bloat. So
I have a tool which
basically can do everything but
brew coffee, but it, the,
the chances are higher that
it can do a lot
of things, but not do
all of them very well
anymore because you constantly have
to try to balance everything
with each other and you
fiddle around on one end
and stuff breaks on the
other. So everything becomes needlessly
complicated. So this is why
so far, I always have
been quite conservative when accepting
pull requests, because I wanted
not to end up with
features that I personally don't
even use because I don't
want them to use, I
want to use them, but
I can understand if other
people want to use them,
but still, if I match
it, then I'm responsible of
maintaining it. Because usually when
you merge your pull request,
you will have someone who
can't repeat a code, and
then he's gone exactly pull
requests when they fix Bugs
are a gift, but pull
requests when they are a
new feature, an entirely new
subsystem are kind of an
unwanted house guests. I wouldn't
call it an unwanted house.
Yes. But it can become
complicated. So this is why
I, one of the reasons
why I wanted to have
a plugin system in there
from, I don't know, maybe
half a year down the
road from the start of
the project, but never found
the time and the resources
to do it until I
started working full time on
it. And it's, it's actually
funny because I'm, I'm now
noticing that I, myself am
now developing more features than
before, but now just as
plug ins. So for example,
last week I started looking
into, into home ultimization based
on MQTT, which is a
pub sub mechanism used for
internet of things, devices. And
I actually did this for
something completely unrelated, but when
I looked into MQTT for
men, that would be something
nice to have an entrepreneur
so that it would basically
publish its current state on
the bus so that other
things could hook into that.
And so on the weekend,
I quickly whipped up an
MQTT plugin. So now you
can just add MQTT support
to OctoPrint by downloading that
plugin. And that's it. So
it's completely separated from the
rest of the code, no
one who doesn't want to
use it, has to use
it, but the option is
there and this is constantly
happening to happening to myself.
Now, I think of something
I quickly whip up a
plugin and next thing you
know, I have something new
for OctoPrint, but not directly
integrated into occupancy so I
can maintain it separately from
each other. And I don't
have to worry about breaking
stuff in between. That's really
nice. Well, I have to
say as a user and
as someone who enjoys watching
really well-run opensource projects that
I have very much enjoyed
using and watching you code
on OctoPrint and I want
to thank you so much
for your time for chatting
with us today. Thank you
very much for having me
and thanks for the copayments
Folks can get octoprint@octoprint.org. And
if you are doing three
D printing, this is your
first step set up your
printer, get OctoPrint. It is
an absolute joy. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
Next week.